---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Pi Day 2016"
cover: "/images/1024px-Matheon2.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "Entrance mathematician's building"
  author: "Holger Motzkau"
  license: "CC BY-SA 3.0"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Matheon2.jpg"
  license_url: "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en"
date:   "2016-03-14 23:59 -0400"
creation: "2016-03-07"
start_time: "00:00"
end_time: "23:59"
location:
  name: "Various Locations"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
tags: [ 'Festivals', 'Family Events' ]
excerpt: >
  Pi Day is celebrated on March 14th (3/14) around the world. 
  Pi (Greek letter “π”) is the symbol used in mathematics to
  represent a constant — the ratio of the circumference of a circle
  to its diameter — which is approximately 3.14159.

---

Pi Day is celebrated on March 14th (3/14) around the world. Pi
(Greek letter “π”) is the symbol used in mathematics to represent
a constant — the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its
diameter — which is approximately 3.14159.

The Washington Post does a phenomenal job of covering all the upcoming
Pi Day events. I will post a link to that page when
it becomes available (Update: [Washington Post article](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/going-out-guide/wp/2016/03/10/celebrate-pi-day-with-these-pastry-and-pizza-specials/)).

In the meantime here are some of the events that I know about for
this year's Pi Day activities.

### Capitol Hill

Join Mathematica Policy Research to [celebrate Pi(e) Day](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/pie-day-on-capitol-hill-tickets-21492423417?aff=ebrowse)! Co-hosted by
New Jersey Senators Cory Booker and Robert Menendez, we’ll nosh on
tasty pies and celebrate the life and contributions of Einstein, one of
Princeton, New Jersey’s, most illustrious residents—while also
absorbing low-calorie, high-nutrition information about the value of
data-driven, evidence-based policy and STEM education. 3:00 PM to 4:30
PM. Kennedy Caucus Room - 325 Russell Senate Office Building.

### National Institutes of Health

NIH invites you to participate in our second annual [celebration of 
Pi Day](https://datascience.nih.gov/PiDay2016), with
a day of events and activities celebrating the
intersection between the quantitative and biomedical sciences. 
On Pi Day and every day, NIH recognizes the importance of building a
diverse biomedical workforce with the quantitative skills required to
tackle future challenges.

* Tours of the Data Center (9am, Building 12/CIT, advanced registration required)
* PiCo Lightning Talks 3 slides. 1 idea. 4 minutes. (10am-11am, Lipsett Auditorium) videocast link
* Posters/Demos and networking event with food provided by FAES and pies for puchase/donation (11am-1pm, FAES Terrace)
* Data Science Distinguished Seminar Series – “Models and Data in Biomedicine: What’s Real and What’s Noise? And, Why Should We Care?” by Carlos Bustamante, Ph.D., Stanford University (1pm-2pm, Lipsett Auditorium) videocast link
* Workshop on Reproducible Research – “Many Dimensions and Shared Responsibilities” by Lisa Meier McShane, Ph.D., National Cancer Institute (2:30pm-4:30pm, Lipsett Auditorium) videocast link
* Pi Day Scholars Event for high school students and their teachers (all day)
* And much more!

### TechShop DC

Enjoy pizza, laser etched pies and refreshments! Bring a pie,
any size or flavor, to add to the fun! We'll provide the ice cream,
coffee, paper goods, and everything else. Brush up on your knowledge
of pi and enter our pi decimal contest. The participant who can write
down the most correct digits of pi from memory will receive an
excellent TechShop prize, a Choice Class gift card (nontransferrable)!
This event is free and open to the public. Bring a visitor to
show off the shop and your amazing maker skills! 5:30 PM to 8:00 PM.
[TechShop DC-Arlington](http://www.techshop.ws/Events.html?&action=detail&id=1942) - 2110 Crystal Drive #B, Arlington, VA 22202.

