---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "ZooLights"
cover: "/images/ZooLights_2010_-_Holiday_Lights_at_the_National_Zoo.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "ZooLights 2010 - Holiday Lights at the National Zoo"
  author: "AlbertHerring"
  license: "CC BY 2.0"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:ZooLights_2010_-_Holiday_Lights_at_the_National_Zoo_(5308915480).jpg"
  license_url: "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/deed.en"
date:   "2016-11-25 17:00"
endDate:   "2017-01-01 21:00"
creation: "2016-11-22"
start_time: "5:00 PM"
end_time: "9:00 PM"
location:
  name: "National Zoo"
  address:
    - "3001 Connecticut Ave NW"
  city: "Washington"
  state: DC
  zip: 20008
tags: [ 'National Zoo', 'Family Events' ]
excerpt: >
  Join the thousands of visitors who make ZooLights a part of their annual
  holiday tradition. A free event, ZooLights includes live music performances,
  tasty winter treats, and plenty of opportunities for holiday shopping. More
  than 500,000 environmentally-friendly LED lights transform the Zoo into a
  winter wonderland complete with a dazzling light show set to music! November
  25 - January 1.

---

Join the thousands of visitors who make
[ZooLights](https://nationalzoo.si.edu/events/zoolights) a part of their annual
holiday tradition. A free event, ZooLights includes live music performances,
tasty winter treats, and plenty of opportunities for holiday shopping. More than
500,000 environmentally-friendly LED lights transform the Zoo into a winter
wonderland complete with a dazzling light show set to music!

This year's special nights include BrewLights, Dec. 1; Military Night, Dec. 2;
and Date Night, Dec. 8. Member Week is Dec. 3 through Dec. 10.

Thaw your paws in the animal exhibit buildings and see the nocturnal critters!
The Small Mammal House, Reptile Discovery Center, Think Tank, and Great Cats are
open every night.

Rides and attractions include:

* The Smithsonian's National Zoo Choo-Choo: take a merry tour through the Zoo on
a trackless train that whisks guests all around the Great Cats exhibit and
features gorgeous views of the Zoo's holiday light displays.
* Snow-less Tubing: take the plunge down one of our 150-foot-long tracks—no snow necessary!
* Speedwell Foundation Conservation Carousel: hop on to your choice of 58 animal
figurines, as the carousel highlights the Zoo's incredible research and
success stories. As one of the few carousels in the world powered by solar
energy, thanks to a generous donation by Pepco Energy Services, the carousel
is a new spin on conservation.

Shuttles: Every Saturday night enjoy a complimentary shuttle ride from the
Woodley Park Metro station to the Zoo, generously provided by Big Bus Tours.
Look for the burgundy and cream double-decker buses running every 20 minutes

Parking & Rates: Parking is limited.

Members: $11
Non-members: $22

PLEASE NOTE: The Beach Drive entrance to the Zoo will be closed as part of the
National Park Service's Beach Drive rehabilitation project. Zoo visitors are
encouraged to avoid Rock Creek Parkway and use the Harvard Street NW entrance,
or the Connecticut Avenue NW entrance. Detailed maps and detour information can
be found on the NPS website. Commuters and visitors can also call 202-895-6232
for road closure information
