---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "AFI DOCS 2016"
cover: "/images/The_Shadow_Telecine.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "The Shadow Telecine"
  author: "	Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies"
  license: "CC BY-SA 4.0"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:The_Shadow_Telecine_for_motion_picture_film_and_the_the_Sondor_Magnetic_film_dubber,_used_by_the_AIATSIS_Moving_Image_Unit_to_convert_film_stock_to_video_tape_or_file.JPG"
  license_url: "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/deed.en"
date:   "2016-06-22"
endDate:   "2016-06-26"
creation: "2016-05-19"
tags: [ 'Films', 'Festivals' ]
excerpt: >
  AFI DOCS is the nation's documentary film festival known for showcasing the
  best in documentary filmmaking from the US and around the world. The film
  festival is June 22 to June 26.
---

[AFI DOCS](http://www.afi.com/afidocs) is the nation's documentary
film festival known for showcasing the best in documentary filmmaking from the
US and around the world.

AFI DOCS is also the only film festival in the United States that offers the
unique opportunity to connect film audiences with national opinion leaders,
filmmakers and intriguing film subjects. With conversations and experiences you
won't experience at any other film festival, AFI DOCS harnesses the power of
this important art form and its potential to inspire change.

Screenings during this annual five-day event take place in landmark venues in
Washington, DC and the world-class AFI Silver Theatre, the independent film hub
of the metropolitan region.

Some of the films to be screened are:

### 5 October

Facing a surgery with a 50-50 chance of survival, director Martin Kollar's
brother embarks on a vagabond-like bicycle trip across Eastern Europe. Told
without any dialogue and buttressed by the writings and sketches from the
journal his brother was keeping at that time, Kollár captures the grandeur of
this journey and his brother’s place within natural and man-made spaces he may
never see again. Solemn yet upbeat, 5 OCTOBER delivers a beautiful portrait of
humanity in limbo, both geographical and mortal. — David L. Blaylock

### Chicken People

Poultry Show. In this competition, some 10,000 prime specimens from all
over the U.S. battle for the title of Super Grand Champion. The often-eccentric
bird breeders share a passion for fostering feathered finery, discovering
in their chickens a salve for life’s challenges and traumas. Full of heart
and humor, CHICKEN PEOPLE is a delightful portrait of America’s most
meticulously manicured fowl and their biggest fans. — Tom Meenan

### Cinema, Mon Amour

As the last of Romania’s once grand and abundant movie palaces slowly shutters
its doors, theater owner Victor Purice and his dedicated but small staff soon
find themselves going to ridiculous extremes in an effort to save their once
great but now run-down theater. CINEMA MON AMOUR is a funny and
bittersweet look at the lengths that one man will go to in his quest to
hold onto his dreams. — Scott Mueller

### Command And Control

Director Robert Kenner ratchets up the tension in a film that is both a
thrilling disaster movie and a probing documentary about the threat posed by
aging nuclear warheads in our midst. The action centers on a true account of a
nuclear accident in 1980 and the workers who raced to repair a damaged missile
before it exploded. Suspenseful and thought-provoking, thanks in part to
convincing reenactments, COMMAND AND CONTROL is a compelling cautionary tale. —
Mark Page

### How To Build A Time Machine

Two men from very different backgrounds, one a Hollywood animator, the other a
scientist, each become obsessed with the notion of time travel. Rob Niosi,
former animator on Pee Wee’s Playhouse, is driven by his dream of creating a
replica time machine from the 1960 film based on the novel by H. G. Wells, The
Time Machine. Physicist Ron Mallett, haunted by the early death of his father,
ponders the possibilities of turning back the clock by studying the science of
black holes. — Mimi Brody

### Zero Days

When independent Internet security technicians discovered a chillingly powerful
computer virus unlike anything they’d seen before, signs pointed to something
beyond merely malevolent hackers, but to a high-stakes game of cyber warfare
between nations. Academy Award®-winning filmmaker Alex Gibney returns to the
festival with ZERO DAYS, a fascinating exposé on American and Israeli covert
operations aimed at Iran’s nuclear program. Gibney (TAXI TO THE DARK SIDE,
GOING CLEAR: Scientology and the Prison of Belief) is a master at investigative
documentary filmmaking, shining a light on institutions as diverse as
Wikileaks, the Church of Scientology, Apple Inc., Enron and the U.S. military.
His latest work poses compelling and critically important questions about the
role of technology in war and foreign policy, and its worldwide implications. —
Mimi Brody
