---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Nerd Nite May"
cover: "/images/Sobo_1909_624.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "Sobo 1909 624"
  author: "Dr. Johannes Sobotta"
  license: "the public domain"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Sobo_1909_624.png"
  license_url: "http://fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/public-domain/welcome"
date:   "2016-05-14 18:00"
endDate:   "2016-05-14 21:00"
creation: "2016-04-29"
start_time: "6:00 PM"
end_time: "9:00 PM"
location:
  name: "DC9"
  address:
    - "1940 9th Street NW"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
  zip: 20001
tags: [ 'Nerd Nite DC', '21+ Events', 'Lectures' ]
excerpt: >
  The brain is the last true medical frontier. While it has been explored, its
  terrain is so vast that those explorers who traverse it are learning that
  they are just beginning to scratch the surface.  We know that nerd brains,
  for example, have sections devoted to Star Trek, comics, and Dr. Who, but
  what lies beyond?  This month at nerd nite on May 14, three "brainy" speakers
  will be delving in to some obscure facets of psychology, such as deception,
  arousal, and that thing that is happening when you have a word on the tip of
  your tongue (it's called aphasia), to show us what really lies beneath the surface.

---

Nerd Nite is a monthly event held in more than 75 cities across the globe
during which several folks give 18-21-minute fun-yet-informative
presentations across all disciplines – while the audience drinks along.
Despite our similar names the Nerd Guide DC and Nerd Nite DC are
unaffiliated but kindred spirits. Doors open at 6:00, show starts
at 6:30. Tickets can be purchased at [dcnine.com](http://dcnine.com).
More information available at the [Nerd Nite DC](https://dc.nerdnite.com) website.
This is a 21+ event.

The brain is the last true medical frontier. While it has been explored, its
terrain is so vast that those explorers who traverse it are learning that they
are just beginning to scratch the surface.  We know that nerd brains, for
example, have sections devoted to Star Trek, comics, and Dr. Who, but what lies
beyond?  This month, our three "brainy" speakers will be delving in to some
obscure facets of psychology, such as deception, arousal, and that thing that
is happening when you have a word on the tip of your tongue (it's called
aphasia), to show us what really lies beneath the surface.

#### The Liars’ Edge

By Sean Rapp  

Two hundred. That is the number of lies you are potentially told everyday.
Research has shown that people tell a lie every three minutes, and the
average person is unable to detect those lies 80% of the time. If you are
now wondering who you can trust, never fear! This talk will arm you with the
knowledge to detect a deception in progress and to recognize when you are
being presented with the truth.  We will delve into the worlds of
micro-expression, the Reid technique, military interrogation, and many more.
You will learn about the history of deception detection, the current
methodologies in practice today, and how you can apply them in your everyday life.

Bio: Sean Rapp is currently a student at the George Washington University
studying Business. In a previous life, Sean was a Human Intelligence
Professional for Joint Special Operations and the Defense Intelligence
Agency. After deployments to Operations Enduring & Iraqi Freedom and
having ten years of deception detection training, Sean has learned one
immutable fact: those pants *never* make your girlfriend look fat.

#### More than Words – Tales of The Unspeakable Brain  

By Sadhvi Saxena

Imagine you want to say "I love you," but you can't actually speak the words.
Imagine you have a gluten allergy, but you can't read the ingredient list.
Imagine that this happens all of the time, despite the fact that your
intelligence, thoughts and consciousness are intact. Some stroke and brain
injury survivors have to deal with this frustration everyday, because
they have what is known as aphasia. Aphasia hinders one's ability to
speak, write and understand both written and verbal language. This talk
will introduce the audience to the diversity of aphasia, it will discuss
the brain and aphasia research from a clinical perspective, and it will
delve into innovative methods for aphasia treatment.

Bio: Sadhvi is a shameless lover of broken brains. For 6 exciting years,
she has been researching brain injury, dementia, and the use of
noninvasive brain stimulation to study and treat brain disorders.
When not working with patients or playing with data, she advocates
for the development of personalized, continued, and affordable
rehabilitation. She received her M.S. in Clinical Investigation from
Boston University and is currently finishing up her M.H.S at the Johns
Hopkins School of Public Health.

#### Ants in Your Pants? Let's Dance: Secrets of Managing Physiological Arousal

By Val Molaison

Remember the parental admonitions to sit still and pay attention, to stop
chewing your fingernails, or to, "Dammit Suzie look at us when
you're being spoken to!"? Well, while parents were right about many
things, they were probably not right about your ideal level
physiological arousal. Physiological arousal theory says that people achieve
best with a sensory diet that keeps arousal levels within ideal zones
for the activity at hand – and maybe for you, that means you get most
work done when not sitting still. In this talk, we'll explore ways you
have been unconsciously managing arousal, how specific sensory input
impacts arousal, and how to feed your nervous system the proper sensory
diet for success.

Bio: Val is a health psychologist who served hard time in the US Senate
before jumping the shark into government relations. She holds a PhD in
Applied Development Psychology from University of Maryland Baltimore
County. Her prior lives include broadcast journalist, diversity consultant,
grief and trauma expert, and psychotherapist. She loves DC, as it offers
a wide variety of sensory inputs to help her manage her own...arousal...levels.
