---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Nerd Nite June"
cover: "/images/1024px-InvestigadoresUR.jpg"
attribution:
  name: " Scientists in a laboratory of the University of La Rioja"
  author: "Urcomunicacion"
  license: "CC BY 3.0"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:InvestigadoresUR.JPG"
  license_url: "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/deed.en"
date:   "2016-06-11 18:00"
endDate:   "2016-06-11 21:00"
creation: "2016-06-05"
start_time: "6:00 PM"
end_time: "9:00 PM"
location:
  name: "DC9"
  address:
    - "1940 9th Street NW"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
  zip: 20001
tags: [ 'Nerd Nite DC', '21+ Events', 'Lectures' ]
excerpt: >
  We all know that the discovery of penicillin was mostly an accident, but the
  development of all sorts of other life-extending technologies was often not so
  simple. In this last Nerd Nite before summer break we’ll be learning about the
  drama behind the sequencing of the human genome, the tribulations of malaria
  vaccine development, and the scandals uncovered in the world of scientific
  imaging. On June 11 come give your brain one last dose of intellectual
  medicine before you head out for the holidays!

---

Nerd Nite is a monthly event held in more than 75 cities across the globe
during which several folks give 18-21-minute fun-yet-informative
presentations across all disciplines – while the audience drinks along.
Despite our similar names the Nerd Guide DC and Nerd Nite DC are
unaffiliated but kindred spirits. Doors open at 6:00, show starts
at 6:30. Tickets can be purchased at [goo.gl/pRAdw3](https://goo.gl/pRAdw3).
More information available at the [Nerd Nite DC](https://dc.nerdnite.com)
website. This is a 21+ event.

We all know that the discovery of penicillin was mostly an accident, but the
development of all sorts of other life-extending technologies was often not so
simple. In this last Nerd Nite before summer break we’ll be learning about the
drama behind the sequencing of the human genome, the tribulations of malaria
vaccine development, and the scandals uncovered in the world of scientific
imaging. Come give your brain one last dose of intellectual medicine before you
head out for the holidays!

#### What’s in a Genome? Stories from the Human Genome Project

By Kris Wetterstrand

It’s the stuff of life. It’s a recipe book. It’s what makes you you. DNA is the
chemical molecule that contains all the information needed to build and maintain
an organism. The Human Genome Project (HGP) was the initial effort to figure out
what all the DNA (also known as the genome) is in humans. It was a big deal for
biologists to come together and get this done, it cost a LOT of money, and there
was a lot of drama... but in the end it was a success. This talk will show you
what it took do the HGP, what we learned and what we still don’t know. The
presenter of this talk celebrated the completion of the HGP three times
(genomicists like parties), but she’ll tell you, we still aren’t done.

Bio: Kris is Scientific Liaison to the Director for Extramural Activities at the
National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI).  She manages, contributes to,
or sticks her nose into special projects at NHGRI such as the History of
Genomics Program, the content development team for the Genome: Unlocking Life’s
Code Smithsonian exhibition and the Genome Sequencing Program. She was on the
management team of the Human Genome Project and is marginally ‘famous’ for
tracking the decreasing costs of DNA sequencing for the past 15 years.  She
received her M.S. in genetics from Cornell University.

#### Photo Manipulation And Misconduct in Biomedical Research  

By Tagide deCarvalho

We all want to our pictures to look good. Photographic enhancement is such a
large part of our culture that parents have begun naming their babies after
Instagram filters! However, photo manipulation can be taken to questionable
extremes, as exemplified by controversies involving magazine covers of
celebrities with digitally slimmed bodies. What about scientific photographs?
Are scientists allowed to alter research images to make them look better? Where
is the line between acceptable and inappropriate image processing? In this
presentation, we will discuss the ethics of image manipulation, learn how fraud
is uncovered in biomedical research, and highlight the grim consequences of
scientific misconduct from recent high profile cases.

Bio: Tagide deCarvalho is the director of the Core Imaging Facility at
University of Maryland, Baltimore County, where scientists collect and process
their research images. She received a PhD in evolutionary biology from the
University of Maryland, College Park and stayed in the area, working as a
neuroscientist at the Carnegie Institution and teaching at Georgetown
University. At the end of the workday, she enjoys posting heavily filtered
personal photos on Instagram.

#### How to Make a Malaria Vaccine

By Adam Ruben

Nearly half of the world’s population is at risk of contracting malaria; in
2015, there were more than 200 million malaria cases and nearly half a million
deaths, mostly in Sub-Saharan Africa. While malaria can usually be treated, the
best chance we have at saving lives, and the billions of dollars spent on
treatment and prevention, is by developing a vaccine. However, vaccine
development is not easy for a disease like malaria, which faces both biological
and market-based challenges. During this talk, we will take you through an
intrigue-filled journey of vaccine development, from the challenges in the lab
to the story in the field.

Bio: Adam Ruben is a writer, comedian, and molecular biologist.  He received his
Ph.D. in Biology from Johns Hopkins University and is now the Associate Director
of Vaccine Stabilization & Logistics at Sanaria Inc.  Adam has performed
stand-up comedy for more than 15 years and he is the author of the book
Surviving Your Stupid, Stupid Decision to Go to Grad School and is currently
working on a narrative nonfiction book about pinball, to be published next year.
Adam has appeared on the Food Network’s Food Detectives, the Science Channel’s
Head Rush, the Travel Channel’s Mysteries at the Kremlin, the Weather Channel’s
Weather Gone Viral, and NPR’s All Things Considered, and he currently co-hosts
Outrageous Acts of Science​ on the Science Channel.
