---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "DC Short Film Festival"
cover: "/images/DCS16_fest_Carousel.jpg"
date:   "2016-09-08"
endDate:   "2016-09-18"
creation: "2016-08-28"
tags: [ 'Films', 'Festivals' ]
excerpt: >
  The 2016 DC Shorts Film Festival (Sep 8 - 18) showcases one of the largest
  collection of short films in the USA. Out of over 1,300 entries from around
  the globe, our programmers have selected 131 unique films that reflect the
  33 nations they represent — and bring a world view to Washington, DC.

---

The [2016 DC Shorts Film Festival](http://festival.dcshorts.com/) showcases
one of the largest collection of short films in the USA. Out of over 1,300
entries from around the globe, our programmers have selected 131 unique films
that reflect the 33 nations they represent — and bring a world view to
Washington, DC.

Here are some of the films that will be screened:

**A Bomb**

Maxime helps his best friend Guérin make a bomb in an attempt to get closer
to Guérin’s sister, the seductive Joëlle.

**A Social life**

Meredith is an ambitious career girl who wants to have it all and she
understands the importance of an online presence in this hyper-connected day
and age. But will her obsession and need for validation take its toll?

**Aria For A Cow**

Aria, a bovine diva, demands to be respected for more than just her dairy
products.

**Bob Dylan Hates Me**

Independent filmmaker and provocateur Caveh Zahedi (The Shiek and I, I Am a
Sex Addict) meets his childhood idol. It doesn’t go well.

**Good Cop, Good Cop**

Officer Lane is a dedicated but no so bright police officer who just can’t
seem to understand the concept of good cop bad cop.

**Moom**

In a magical world where memories are still attached to forgotten objects, one
little memory named Moom has a harder time letting go.

**Split Ticket**

In 1947, future Presidents John F. Kennedy (age 29) and Richard Nixon (age 34)
travel together by train to Pennsylvania where they must make a fateful
decision.

**The Postmodern Pioneer Plaque**

Four decades after Carl Sagan created the "Pioneer Plaque" as Humanity’s first
message to extraterrestrial civilizations, the World gets together to
collectively compose a new message.

**The Quantum Lighter**

How can we prove that we actually time-traveled?

**Zero M2**

After a series of unsuccessful flat-huntings in Paris, Paul finds himself
finally moving into a nice and affordable studio. But there’s one small problem
and it’s becoming smaller by the minute.
