---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Arlington Planetarium October Weekend"
cover: "/images/1008px-Montagem_Sistema_Solar.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "Our Solar System"
  author: "NASA"
  license: "the public domain"
  name_url: "http://solarsystem.nasa.gov/galleries/our-solar-system"
  license_url: "http://fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/public-domain/welcome"
date:   "2016-10-14 00:00"
endDate:   "2016-10-16 23:59"
creation: "2016-10-10"
location:
  name: "David M. Brown Planetarium"
  address:
    - "1426 North Quincy Street"
  city: Arlington
  state: VA
  zip: 22207
tags: [ 'Arlington Planetarium', 'Family Events', 'Astronomy and Aeronautics' ]
excerpt: >
  On the weekend of October 14-16, the Arlington Planetarium is proud to
  present an exclusive full dome video made exclusively for the David M Brown
  Planetarium by artist Brandon Morse and thanks to the generous donations
  received for the Morse Video fund, we get to share it with you for FREE! We
  will have several showings of the piece each night as well as a lecture on
  commercial space flight and two full dome children's shows on Sunday!
  Reserve your seats for the October weekend now!

---

We are proud to present an exclusive, specially commissioned full dome video, In
This Convex Hull, made exclusively for the David M. Brown Planetarium by artist
Brandon Morse. Thanks to your generous donations to the Morse Video fund, and
our partnership with the Arlington Cultural Affairs Department, we get to share
this new artwork with you FREE of charge! We will have several free showings of
the piece each night. Just go
[here](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/in-this-convex-hull-a-full-dome-projection-by-brandon-morse-tickets-27152890025?aff=eac2)
for reservations, and a description of the artist’s concept.

In mathematics, a convex hull is the smallest convex space containing a set of
objects.  It is an envelope which surrounds its contents; binding them and
defining them as a group.  In This Convex Hull is an immersive full-dome
projection consisting of a series of events in which the architecture of the
planetarium dome is activated to shift the viewer's perceptions of scale while
confronting the viewer with scenes which are ever more claustrophobic, and
restrictive.

The project lies contrary to the traditional notion of a planetarium as a
setting to view outward towards expansive space. Instead, this new work explores
themes of immersion, confinement and perspectival inversion.  Here, the dome
itself works in concert with the video to situate the viewer at the center of a
series of events which envelop the audience and immerse it in a fabric of
activity abstract and emergent in nature.

Other events during this weekend include a special guest lecture by Carissa
Christensen, who will talk about the Commercial Space Program; a children’s
movie starring Big Bird and Elmo; and another kids’ favorite featuring the Zula
Patrol in full-dome splendor. While all shows will be free, reservations are
highly recommended.

**Talk About the Commercial Space Program with Carissa Christensen**

Sat, October 15, 2016. 7:30 PM – 8:30 PM.

The aerospace industry is no longer defined by government space agencies. We
live in a time when commercial firms have found ways to profit from the space
environment. Today's space businesses include satellite television delivered to
millions of subscribers, images of the whole Earth taken by tiny remote sensing
cubesats, suborbital vehicles that will carry tourists, and companies like
SpaceX delivering supplies (and eventually astronauts) to the International
Space Station, as well as many others. Space entrepreneurship and investment
have undergone unprecedented growth in recent years, and an exhilarating future
awaits.

Carissa Bryce Christensen is a founder and Managing Partner of The Tauri Group,
an analytic consulting firm based in Alexandria, Virginia. Ms. Christensen is a
recognized expert in commercial space and for two decades has engaged the
leading edge of the space industry with innovative analysis of space systems,
industry economics, advanced technologies, unique regulatory requirements, and
underlying demand.

**One World, One Sky: Big Bird’s Adventure**

Sun, October 16, 2016. 1:40 PM – 2:05 PM.

Join Big Bird and Elmo as they explore the night sky with Hu Hu Zhu, a Muppet
from "Zhima Jie," the Chinese co-production of Sesame Street. Together they take
an imaginary trip from Sesame Street to the moon, where they discover how
different it is from Earth. They also journey to Zhima Jie to learn about the
similarities in our view of the sky.

**The Zula Patrol: Under The Weather**

Sun, October 16, 2016. 3:00 PM – 3:30 PM

From the far reaches of outer space, from the bright orange planet Zula, comes
the Zula Patrol! Based on the #1-rated NBC Saturday Morning TV series "The Zula
Patrol," The Zula Patrol: Under the Weather is one of the top-performing digital
dome shows of its genre.

The story: the stalwart heroes of the Zula Patrol are on an expedition
collecting samples of weather for scientist Multo's research -- using their
loyal pet Gorga's ability to collect and bottle all kinds of weather. But when
the Zula gang inadvertently hurts Gorga's feelings, he decides to leave Zula and
find another planet to live on. Interplanetary villain Dark Truder then tricks
Gorga into stealing the weather from other planets - part of his latest
nefarious scheme to rule the Universe. The ZPers find out and go after him - in
the process learning all about weather, both terrestrial and interplanetary.

Under the Weather is designed for children ages 4-9 and their families. Like the
TV series (also airing on qubo, Telemundo, ION and PBS nationwide), it supports
many national and state science education standards.
