---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Boo At The Zoo"
cover: "/images/boo_at_the_zoo.jpg"
date:   "2016-10-21 15:30"
endDate:   "2016-10-23 20:30"
creation: "2016-09-21"
start_time: "5:30 PM"
end_time: "8:30 PM"
location:
  name: "National Zoo"
  address:
    - "3001 Connecticut Ave NW"
  city: "Washington"
  state: DC
  zip: 20008
tags: [ 'National Zoo', 'Family Events' ]
excerpt: >
  This annual tradition at the National Zoo has more than 40 treat stations,
  animal demonstrations, keeper chats, and decorated trails, this frightfully
  fun evening is a magical time for the whole family. October 21 - 23.

---

With treat stations, animal demonstrations, keeper chats, and decorated trails,
this frightfully fun evening is a treat for the whole family. An entertainment
stage will feature magicians, jugglers, and a DJ spinning Halloween favorites.
Don't miss a themed hay maze and scarecrow field.

Treat stations will include goodies for all ages, including adult treats like
craft beer and food tastings. Other treats include all the chocolate you could
desire with Twix, Snickers, Milky Way, M&Ms, Three Musketeers, and healthy
options from Benito's Chips and Honest Tea.

[Boo at the Zoo](https://nationalzoo.si.edu/events/boo-zoo) is appropriate for
children ages 4 to 12. All guests ages 2 and older, including adults, must
purchase a ticket. General Admission Tickets are $20 for members and $30 for
non-members.

Superheroes, zombies, and princesses will all enjoy:

* A commemorative Boo at the Zoo trick-or-treat bag
* 40+ treat stations
* Live entertainment
* After-hours access to animal houses and exhibits, including:
  * Small Mammal House
  * Great Ape House
  * Reptile Discovery Center
  * Think Tank
  * Great Cats Circle
  * Elephant Community Center
  * Kids Farm
  * Bird House
  * Asia Trail (David M. Rubenstein Family Giant Panda Habitat will be closed)
* Animal experiences and Zoo education stations
* Rides on the Speedwell Conservation Carousel (additional charge)
