---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Filmfest DC"
cover: "/images/Filmfest-DC-poster-e1458004301170.jpg"
date:   "2016-04-14"
endDate:   "2016-04-24"
creation: "2016-03-30"
tags: [ 'Films', 'Festivals' ]
excerpt: >
  Filmfest DC celebrates its 30th anniversary with a new lineup of features,
  documentaries, and shorts representing the best cinema from around the globe.
---

[Filmfest DC](http://www.filmfestdc.org/) celebrates its 30th anniversary
with a new lineup of features, documentaries, and shorts representing the
best cinema from around the globe.

"75 films • 45 countries • 6 screens • 11 days • 1 festival"

Filmfest DC is grateful for our incredible team of volunteers that make
our event so fantastic from year to year! As a non-profit, we would not
be able to present Filmfest DC without the help of our community. We
look forward to seeing some favorite volunteers from past years, as
well as meeting new volunteers throughout the festival.

Some of the films to be screened are:

### Belgian Rhapsody

This entertaining musical comedy uses the fierce rivalry between two
Belgian brass bands, the Flemish St. Cecilia and the Walloon
(French-speaking) En Avant, vying for a European championship to
illustrate the intractable competition between Belgium's two language
groups in almost every walk of life. As the action kicks off, En Avant
blows into the finals thanks to Hugues, the band's exceptionally
talented and handsome trumpet player. But St. Cecilia's soloist
literally gives his all and drops dead on stage after playing his final
notes. While the members of St. Cecilia mourn their bandmate—and their
chances—crafty Elka, the daughter of the band's conductor, proposes a
solution: Poach En Avant's super talent. Director Vincent Bal successfully
channels the beating heart of classic Hollywood musical romances, even
as the narrative remains authentically Belgian. The upbeat final musical
number should ensure audiences leave the theater with a grin.
— Palm Springs International Film Festival

### The Brand New Testament

What if God was one of us? Just a schmo like all of us, except that he
gets a lot more things cosmically wrong? Variety coined the term "ontological
satire" for Jaco Van Dormael's films (Toto the Hero, Mr. Nobody, The Eighth Day),
and the director hasn't finished questioning the Creation story yet. In this
version, God (Benoit Poelvoorde) is alive and dyspeptic in Brussels, where he
controls the universe from an old computer and torments his family with His
Moods. His very modern daughter Ea (Pili Groyne) isn't having any of it.
She outs her dad, in the process revealing the malicious capriciousness we call
fate. How individuals take the news—delivered via text message—is at the heart
of this idea-packed film. Among six new apostles, Catherine Deneuve bravely
outdoes her Belle de Jour turn in a "peppy, original and (importantly) very
sweet story," as The Guardian put it. — Various sources

### City of Trees

City of Trees is a must-see film for many reasons. First, it is a demonstration
of the power of documentary film to inspire or merely shine light on important
aspects of life that can silently pass us by. There's also the community
aspect: This is a very local story by a local film company, Meridian Hill
Films. It focuses on the work of nonprofit Washington Parks & People, which
gets a grant to plant trees in the underused Oxon Run Park in Southeast D.C.
Committed to hiring people who are least likely to find work during the
recession, we follow Charles, Michael, and James as they learn basic job
skills and try to keep their lives together. Meanwhile, the organization
must fight vandalism, bureaucracy, and apathy as budget shortfalls threaten
the project. Ultimately, City of Trees is an inspiring story of the
possibilities within us all. — Dave Nuttycombe

### Dough

In this timely comedy, the always-reliable Jonathan Pryce plays Nat, a
curmudgeonly old Jewish baker struggling to keep his family business going
amid urban decay and encroaching development in London's East End. On the
other side of town, Ayyash, a young Muslim immigrant, is searching to find
any job other than working for a dangerous small-time pot dealer. After
Nat's assistant quits, Ayyash finds his way to Nat's bakery. While
Nat's off negotiating with his late partner's wife and simultaneously fending
off her advances, Ayyash accidentally drops a bag of marijuana into the challah
dough. Suddenly, business picks way up. Surprised by all the new young
customers lining up, Nat initially doesn't suspect Ayyash. However, the
kid is scrambling to keep both jobs and keep both bosses from learning
about each other. Dough is equally comic and poignant in its portrait of
modern life. — Dave Nuttycombe

### My Internship in Canada

Academy Award® - nominated director Philippe Falardeau (Monsieur Lazhar,
FFDC 2012) returns with a funny, biting, timely political satire in which
politicians, citizens, and lobbyists go head to head as they tear
democracy to shreds. My Internship in Canada opens as a Conservative
minority government is tabling legislation that will send the country to
war. When one of their MPs falls ill, the deciding vote is left to
independent Steve Guibord (Starbuck's Patrick Huard), a former hockey
player whose pro career fizzled due to his fear of flying. Pressure
comes from all sides, even at home, but salvation arrives in the form of new
intern Souverain (Irdens Exantus), a Haitian student who knows more about
the ins and outs of the Canadian system than Steve does. Reminiscent of
Ealing comedies such as The Mouse That Roared, My Internship in Canada exposes
Canadians' ingrained tendency to focus on the regional instead of the wider
picture, taking for granted the unique system that makes their democracy
function. Not surprisingly, it takes someone from another country to explain
it. This film is the winner of the Toronto Film Critics Association Award,
Best Canadian Feature Award at the Toronto International Film Festival, and
Canada's Top Ten Film Festival People's Choice Award. — Toronto International
Film Festival