---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Cherry Blast"
cover: "/images/1024px-Cherry_plums.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "Cherry plums"
  author: "Fir0002"
  license: "CC BY-SA 3.0"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Cherry_plums.jpg"
  license_url: "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en"
date:   "2016-04-16 18:00"
endDate:   "2016-04-17 2:00"
creation: "2016-04-14"
start_time: "6:00 PM"
end_time: "2:00 AM"
location:
  name: "Carnegie Library"
  address:
    - "Mt. Vernon Square"
    - "801 K Street NW"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
  zip: 20001
tags: [ 'Comics and Anime' ]
excerpt: >
  A New and enhanced Cherry Blast will transform Carnegie Library at Mt. Vernon
  Square as a premier 2016 National Cherry Blossom Festival event on April 16.
  Cherry Blast will bring Japanese-inspired flair with experiences that will
  dazzle and delight residents and visitors alike - while creating lasting
  impressions of DC's treasured springtime tradition.

---

A New and enhanced Cherry Blast will transform Carnegie Library at Mt. Vernon
Square as a premier 2016 National Cherry Blossom Festival event.
Cherry Blast will bring Japanese-inspired flair with experiences that will
dazzle and delight residents and visitors alike - while creating lasting
impressions of DC's treasured springtime tradition. Tickets are $20 for
general admission 6 - 10 pm (includes manga vendors, tokyo street food experience,
live painting and art show, gaming and drift car competition, anime fashion show,
and free admission for children under 10), $20 for Saki/Sushi Tasing, $20 Cosplay Dance
Party, $20 Japanese Whiskey Tasting, $25 Cherry Blast Dance Party 10 - 2 am,
or $75 for all the activites.

#### Sushi & Sake Workshops

Sample delectable sushi and savory sake selections from top sophisticated
chefs and baristas entrenched in the Japanese culinary world. Workshops
offered every 30 minutes from 6:30 pm to 1:00 am. Timeslot sign-up provided
in purchase confirmation email.

#### Cherry Blast Dance Party

Experience an amazing line up of electrifying DJs presented by NYX
Entertainment & Events, including NYXLIVE4 and DJ Mario Venechi.

#### Otakon Cosplay Competition and Dance Party

Come dressed up in your favorite cosplay ensemble and be entered to
win fun prizes. Enjoy DJ LJ MTX and DJ Leko presented by NYX Entertainment
& Events. You do not have to be dressed in cosplay to enjoy the competition
showing and dance party.

#### Best Buddies Tokyo Street Food Experience

Indulge your taste buds at the Tokyo street food landscape. Clusters of
street vendors within this Tokyo street replica will give attendees an
opportunity to revel in Japanese inspired food in a sensory filed environment.

#### Manga Vendors

No Japanese inspired event is complete without manga vendors who will
surprise and delight revelers with endless displays of comics and
cartoons that span a broad range of genres-from action-adventure,
comedy and mystery to the heart-pumping romance, science fiction
and horror.

#### Anime Fashion Show

Get ready to immerse yourself in Japanese-inspired fashion with the
anime fashion show that will showcase cutting-edge trends and fashion
pieces straight off the runway and the streets of Tokyo.

#### ESA Gaming and Hyperfest USA Drift Car Competition

In staying true to Japanese culture, cherry blast will an outdoor
gaming experience with today's favorite video games for compete in,
as well as a drift car showcase presented by Hyperfest/USA Drift
that highlights neon lights, jaw-dropping art and eye-popping spoilers.
The drift car showcase will also include a competition for enthusiasts
to participate and wow cherry blast attendees.

#### Live Painting & Cherry Blossom Inspired Art Show

Karlisima Rodas-Israel, Jay F. Coleman, David Amoroso, Pedro Garcia,
and Luis Del Valle will paint live with their diverse artistic style
in large scale unique canvases. Additionally, over 60 local and
international artists will display their cherry blossom inspired art.
