---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "DC Fantastic Film Showcase"
cover: "/images/Melies.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "Scene from Astronomer's Dream"
  author: "Georges Méliès"
  license: "the public domain"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:M%C3%A9li%C3%A8s,_La_lune_%C3%A0_un_m%C3%A8tre_(Star_Film_160-162,_1898)_01.jpg"
  license_url: "http://fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/public-domain/welcome"
date:   "2016-06-02 00:00"
endDate:   "2016-06-05 23:59"
creation: "2016-06-02"
location:
  name: "AFI Silver Theatre"
  address:
    - "8633 Colesville Rd"
  city: "Silver Spring"
  state: MD
  zip: 20910
tags: [ 'Films', 'AFI Silver Theatre', 'Festivals' ]
excerpt: >
  The Washington DC Fantastic Film Showcase features the best
  in genre cinema: fantasy, sci-fi, action, animation, dark comedy and horror.
  The film festival runs June 2 to June 5.

---

Awesome After Dark! From the folks who bring you the annual Spooky Movie
International Horror Film Festival comes a new film festival featuring the best
in genre cinema: fantasy, sci-fi, action, animation, dark comedy and horror.

The [Washington DC Fantastic Film
Showcase](http://www.afi.com/silver/films/2016/p76/headnotes.aspx#wdcffs)
runs concurrently with AwesomeCon and features a mix of classic and
contemporary genre films. Come for the nerd nostalgia, stay for the
boundary-pushing cinematic freakouts!

The films to be screened are:

### HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE

Raised on hip-hop and foster care, defiant city kid Ricky (Julian Dennison) gets
a fresh start in the New Zealand countryside. He quickly finds himself at home
with his new foster family: loving Aunt Bella, cantankerous Uncle Hec (Sam
Neill) and dog Tupac. When a tragedy strikes that threatens to ship Ricky to
another home, both he and Hec go into the bush on the run. As a national manhunt
ensues, the newly branded outlaws must face their options: go out in a blaze of
glory or overcome their differences and survive as a family. Equal parts road
comedy and coming-of-age drama, director Taika Waititi (WHAT WE DO IN THE
SHADOWS) masterfully weaves lively humor with emotionally honest performances by
Neill and Dennison. Never short on laughs, this touching story reminds us about
the journey that growing up is (at any age) and those who help us along the way.
(Note courtesy of Sundance Film Festival.) DIR/SCR/PROD Taika Waititi; SCR from
the book by Barry Crump; PROD Carthew Neal, Matt Noonan, Leanne Saunders. New
Zealand, 2016, color, 101 min, DCP. RATED PG-13

### EVOLUTION (2015) [ÉVOLUTION]

Director Lucile Hadzihalilovic (INNOCENCE), frequent collaborator with Gaspar
Noé (ENTER THE VOID), returns with this visionary sci-fi fable. Nicolas lives on
a rocky island in a hospital dormitory with other young boys. He is treated for
an unnamed medical condition by a staff of nurses, all women. Curious about his
surroundings, the nurses and what they do on the beach at night, Nicolas sneaks
out of bed to spy on them, and discovers a strange and terrifying secret.
DIR/SCR Lucile Hadzihalilovic; SCR Alante Kavaite; PROD Julien Naveau, Sylvie
Pialat, Benoît Quainon, Sebastián Álvarez. France/Belgium/Spain, 2015, color, 82
min, DCP. In French with English subtitles. NOT RATED

### THE BLACKCOAT’S DAUGHTER aka FEBRUARY

The beautiful and haunted Joan (Emma Roberts) makes a bloody and determined
pilgrimage across a frozen landscape toward a prestigious all-girls boarding
school, where Rose (Lucy Boynton) and Kat (Kiernan Shipka) find themselves
stranded after their parents mysteriously fail to retrieve them for winter
break. As Joan gets closer, terrifying visions begin plaguing Kat, while Rose
watches in horror as she becomes possessed by an unseen evil force. (Note
courtesy of A24.) Official Selection, 2015 Fantastic Fest and Toronto film
festivals. DIR/SCR Osgood Perkins; PROD Bryan Bertino, Adrienne Biddle, Alphonse
Ghossein, Robert Menzies, Rob Paris. U.S./Canada, 2015, color, 93 min, DCP.
RATED R

### CARNAGE PARK

The year is 1978. After botching an ill-conceived bank robbery in a desolate
California town, two wannabe crooks named Scorpion Joe and Lenny flee the scene
with a hostage, Vivian, and lead the local lawmen on a high-speed chase. With
his partner suffering from a gunshot wound and losing blood, Joe takes to the
back roads to dodge the heat, and unwittingly steers them into the path of a far
more dangerous evil: a psychotic ex-military sniper who doesn’t take kindly to
strangers. Thrust into a wicked game of cat and mouse with a highly trained and
mentally imbalanced killer, they begin a harrowing fight for survival. Hot on
the heels of his previous feature, 2015’s DARLING, Mickey Keating’s latest
descent into insanity showcases his versatility as a writer and director,
braiding crime caper and survival story into one demented thrill ride. Ashley
Bell quickly turns the role of damsel in distress into that of a badass, “don’t
f**k with me” female lead, traversing the horrors of Carnage Park. (Note
courtesy of Sundance Film Festival.) DIR/SCR Mickey Keating; PROD Eric B.
Fleischman, Sean Tabibian. U.S., 2016, color, 90 min, DCP. NOT RATED

### THE GREASY STRANGLER

This Los Angeles-set tale follows the exploits of Ronnie, a man who runs a disco
walking tour with his browbeaten son, Brayden. When a sexy woman named Janet
takes the tour, it ignites a competition between father and son for her
attentions. It also signals the arrival of an oily, inhuman maniac who stalks
the streets at night and strangles the innocent — soon dubbed “The Greasy
Strangler.” Flush your expectations down the toilet, because you have never seen
a slasher film or a father-son comedy like this. (Note courtesy of Sundance Film
Festival.) Official Selection, 2016 Sundance and SXSW film festivals. DIR/SCR
Jim Hosking; SCR Toby Harvard; PROD Daniel Noah, Andrew Starke, Ant Timpson,
Josh C. Waller, Elijah Wood. U.S., 2016, color, 93 min, DCP. NOT RATED

### BELLADONNA OF SADNESS [KANASHIMI NO BERADONNA]

One of the great lost masterpieces of Japanese animation, never before
officially released in the U.S., BELLADONNA OF SADNESS is a mad, swirling,
psychedelic light-show of medieval tarot-card imagery with horned demons,
haunted forests and La Belle Dame Sans Merci, equal parts J. R. R. Tolkien and
gorgeous, explicit Gustav Klimt-influenced eroticism. The last film in the
adult-themed Animerama trilogy produced by the godfather of Japanese anime and
manga, Osamu Tezuka, and directed by his long-time collaborator Eiichi Yamamoto
(ASTRO BOY; KIMBA THE WHITE LION), BELLADONNA unfolds as a series of spectacular
still watercolor paintings that bleed and twist together. An innocent young
woman, Jeanne (voiced by Aiko Nagayama) is raped by the local lord on her
wedding night. To take revenge, she makes a pact with the devil himself (voiced
by Tatsuya Nakadai, RAN) who appears as an erotic sprite and transforms her into
a black-robed vision of madness and desire. Extremely transgressive and not for
the easily offended, BELLADONNA is fueled by a mindblowing Japanese psych rock
soundtrack by noted avant-garde jazz composer Masahiko Satoh. The film has been
newly restored by Cinelicious Pics using the original 35mm camera negative and
sound elements, and includes more than eight minutes of surreal and explicit
footage cut from the original negative. On par with Rene Laloux’s FANTASTIC
PLANET and Ralph Bakshi’s WIZARDS as an LSD-stoked 1970s head trip, BELLADONNA
marks a major rediscovery for animation fans. (Note courtesy of Cinelicious
Pics.) DIR/SCR Eiichi Yamamoto; SCR Yoshiyuki Fukuda, from the novel by Jules
Michelet; PROD Osamu Tezuka. Japan, 1973, color, 93 min, DCP. In Japanese with
English subtitles. NOT RATED

### BATMAN: THE MOVIE (1966)

This year's AwesomeCon welcomes BATMAN stars Adam West and Burt Ward, and the DC
Fantastic Film Showcase follows suit with late-night screenings of BATMAN: THE
MOVIE. Gotham City’s United Underworld — the Joker, the Penguin, the Riddler and
Catwoman — launch a diabolic new scheme involving submarines, exploding sharks
and a dehydrator that reduces humans to dust. It's no mere heist they have in
mind, but total world domination, with plans to dehydrate the members of the
United World Organization’s Security Council. DIR Leslie H. Martinson; SCR
Lorenzo Semple, Jr., based on characters created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger;
PROD William Dozier. U.S., 1966, color, 105 min, DCP. NOT RATED

### GOG in 3D

Newly restored in HD and 3D! In a remote, underground research laboratory, two
scientists engaged in space travel research are frozen to death in a cold
chamber when their instruments come under the control of an unknown power.
Security agent Dr. David Sheppard (Richard Egan, THE 300 SPARTANS) arrives at
the secret base, also home to two experimental robots, to investigate the
possible sabotage. Early in his investigation, Sheppard finds that the
underground laboratory is under the control of the supercomputer NOVAC and
experimental robots GOG and MAGOG. Herbert L. Strock (THE CRAWLING HAND)
directed this sci-fi/horror classic with a stellar cast that includes Constance
Dowling (BLACK ANGEL), Herbert Marshall (FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT) and William
Schallert (TV's THE PATTY DUKE SHOW). (Note courtesy of Kino/Lorber.) DIR
Herbert L. Strock; SCR Tom Taggart; SCR/PROD Ivan Tors. U.S., 1954, color, 85
min, DCP. NOT RATED

### UNDER THE SHADOW

In 1988 Tehran, Shideh’s attempts to return to medical school after getting
married and having daughter Dorsa are thwarted as a consequence of her
politically active history. Her husband is sent to serve in the Iran-Iraq war,
while Iraqi air raids draw perilously close to their own apartment. Left alone
with Dorsa after neighbors and friends flee from a city in chaos, Shideh’s
daughter becomes increasingly ill and seemingly disturbed. Shideh initially
dismisses Dorsa’s tantrums over a missing doll, but she reluctantly comes to
suspect that they’ve been targeted by djinn — malevolent spirits that steal from
those they seek to possess. Babak Anvari’s ambitious feature debut blends period
detail and social critique with a good old-fashioned horror story, crafting a
film that is as smart as it is scary. Anchored by Narges Rashidi’s stellar
performance, the film presents Shideh’s experience as a strong, defiant woman —
frustrated by a society that has consistently admonished her for her
independence — as she single-handedly battles a multitude of dangers from both
the physical and supernatural worlds in order to save herself and her child.
(Note courtesy of Sundance Film Festival.) DIR/SCR Babak Anvari; PROD Emily Leo,
Oliver Roskill, Lucan Toh. UK/Jordan/Qatar, 2016, color, 84 min, DCP. In Farsi
with English subtitles. NOT RATED

### ANTIBIRTH

Trailer dweller Lou (Natasha Lyonne) and her best friend Sadie (Chloë Sevigny)
spend most of their nights steeped in a murky haze of pot smoke and booze-filled
TV-watching sessions, venturing out on occasion to party in a desolate community
full of drug-addled ex-Marines and other miscreants of society. After an
otherwise normal night of self-destructive behavior, Lou awakens with symptoms
of a bizarre illness and psychosomatic visions that she can’t seem to shake.
Unfazed, she continues with her hard-living ways, but even her frequent bong
rips don’t fully explain the shitstorm swirling around in her head. Something
otherworldly has infected her body, and try as she might, it refuses to be
ignored. An unknown stranger arrives to help her get a grip on reality as
paranoia sets in and stories of conspiracy spread. Writer and director Danny
Perez (ODDSAC) presents a new exercise in visual madness, further cementing his
spot as a purveyor of demented imagery and unrelenting chaos. (Note courtesy of
Sundance Film Festival.) DIR/SCR Danny Perez; PROD David Anselmo, Justin Kelly,
Natasha Lyonne, Roger M. Mayer, Cole Payne. U.S./Canada, 2016, color, 94 min,
DCP. NOT RATED

### PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE w/live shadowcast

After the tremendous success of last October's screenings of THE ROCKY HORROR
PICTURE SHOW, the DC All-Star Shadowcast retuns to the AFI Silver to present a
midnight screening of Brian De Palma's 1974 rock opera PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE.
Disfigured composer Winslow Leach (William Finley) seeks revenge on Swan (Paul
Williams), the heartless producer who stole his music, which Leach wrote for
Phoenix (Jessica Harper), the woman he loves from afar. Williams’ wicked rock
music powers this outré musical, which combines elements of “The Phantom of the
Opera,” “The Picture of Dorian Gray” and “Faust.” DIR/SCR Brian De Palma; PROD
Edward R. Pressman. U.S., 1974, color, 92 min, DCP. RATED PG

### EQUALS (2015)

In this gripping and emotional sci-fi romance from acclaimed director Drake
Doremus (LIKE CRAZY), Kristen Stewart and Nicholas Hoult play Nia and Silas, two
people who work together in a futuristic society known as The Collective. A
seemingly utopian world, The Collective has ended crime and violence by
genetically eliminating all human emotions. Despite this, Nia and Silas can’t
help noticing a growing attraction between them, leading them to a forbidden
relationship — at first tentative, but then exploding into a passionate romance.
As suspicion mounts among their superiors, the couple will be forced to choose
between returning to the safety of the lives they have always known, or risking
it all by attempting a daring escape. (Note courtesy of A24.) With Guy Pearce,
Bel Powley and Jacki Weaver. Official Selection, 2015 Venice and Toronto film
festivals. DIR Drake Doremus; SCR Nathan Parker; PROD Chip Diggins, Michael A.
Pruss, Ann Ruark, Michael Schaefer, Jay Stern. U.S., 2015, color, 101 min, DCP.
RATED PG-13

### TREKOFF: THE MOTION PICTURE

The final frontier was never so hilarious…or so dirty! Sci-fi/comedy podcasters
Justin Timpane (director of NINJAS VS. MONSTERS, which premiered at the 2012
Spooky Movie International Horror Film Festival) and Alexia Poe take their show
on the road, voyaging to an Enterprise set, a sexy Trek burlesque show, a
23rd-century musical and conventions where they meet Klingons, stormtroopers,
genre celebrities and more. This raunchy, laugh-out-loud "fun-umentary" mixes
intriguing and giggle-inducing interviews with live performances of the
over-the-top "Trekoff" podcast, creating an out-of-this-world experience that is
not to be missed. (Note courtesy of the producers.) DIR/PROD Justin Timpane,
Darrell Poe. U.S., 2016, color, 76 min, DCP. NOT RATED

### LITTLE SISTER (2016)

October 2008. Young nun Colleen (Addison Timlin) is avoiding all contact from
her family, until an e-mail from her mother (brilliantly played by Ally Sheedy)
announces, “Your brother is home.” Upon returning to her childhood home in
Asheville, North Carolina, Colleen finds her old room exactly how she left it:
painted black and covered in goth/metal posters. Her parents are happy enough to
see her, but unease and awkwardness abounds. Her brother (Keith Poulson) is
living as a recluse in the guesthouse since returning home from the Iraq war.
During Colleen’s visit, tensions rise and fall, with a little help from
Halloween, pot cupcakes and GWAR. Written and directed by Virginia native Zach
Clark (WHITE REINDEER), this is a sad comedy about family — a schmaltz-free,
pathos-drenched, feel-good movie for the little goth girl inside us all.
"Sweetly funky." – Variety. (Note courtesy of indiewire.) DIR/SCR/PROD Zach
Clark; PROD Daryl Pittman, Melodie Sisk. U.S., 2016, color, 91 min, DCP. NOT
RATED

### YOU’RE F@#K'N DEAD

Tagline: "If you push someone over the edge, make sure they don't crawl back
up." In this violent and sexy homage to grindhouse-style cinema, sisters Lexi
(Ali Lukowski) and Beth (Kristin Rogers) make a wrong turn in their '71 Dodge
Duster and find themselves in a strange, derelict town not pictured on any map.
When the sisters discover the town's dark secret, Beth is held hostage, and her
only chance for survival lies in the hands of Lexi, who will stop at nothing to
get her back. Both of them will fight for their souls against an evil that will
never let them leave…because no one ever leaves the town of Abandon. (Note
courtesy of the producers.) DIR/SCR Jay Spence; PROD Ali Lukowski, Daniel Ross,
Emily Shinn, Jenna St. John. U.S., 2016, color, 100 min, DCP. NOT RATED
