---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "After the James Webb Space Telescope"
cover: "/images/Engineers_Clean_JWST_Secondary_Reflector_with_Carbon_Dioxide_Snow.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "Using CO2 snow to clean the secondary reflector"
  author: "NASA"
  license: "the public domain"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Engineers_Clean_JWST_Secondary_Reflector_with_Carbon_Dioxide_Snow.jpg"
  license_url: "http://fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/public-domain/welcome"
date:   "2017-02-10 20:00"
endDate:   "2017-02-10 22:30"
creation: "2017-01-24"
start_time: "8:00 PM"
end_time: "10:30 PM"
location:
  name: "Philosophical Society of Washington"
  address:
    - "John Wesley Powell Auditorium"
    - "2170 Florida Avenue NW"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
  zip: 20008
tags: [ 'Philosophical Society of Washington', 'Lectures', 'Astronomy and Aeronautics']
excerpt: >
  On February 10, the Philosophical Society hosts John M. Grunsfeld for a lecture about the scientific rationale and technical basis for space-based observatories that will follow the James Webb Telescope, focusing on how they could be built, what they will be able to see that we cannot already observe and how the information they obtain is likely to help us understand the universe around us.

---

The [Philosophical Society of Washington](http://www.philsoc.org/)
Lectures are selected to
appeal to those with a general interest in science and do not require
a specialized knowledge of the subject. They always contain
information that is current, explanations that are understandable
and a few controversial issues to be challenged by a critical
listener. The series is designed as much as possible to include a
wide range of disciplines.

The meetings are open to the public, free, and no reservations are
required. Dress is informal. Meetings are followed by lively
conversation. All must exit the Cosmos Club at 10:30 p.m.
Conversations are continued at another location.

The lecture will discuss the scientific rationale and technical basis for
space-based observatories that will follow the James Webb Telescope, focusing on
how they could be built, what they will be able to see that we cannot already
observe and how the information they obtain is likely to help us understand the
universe around us.

John M. Grunsfeld is recently retired from the position of Associate
Administrator for the Science Mission Directorate at NASA. Previously he was
Deputy Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute (STSI) and Professor of
Physics at Johns Hopkins University. John was an astronaut from 1992 until
joining STSI as Deputy Director. Before becoming an astronaut, John was a Senior
Research Fellow at CalTech in Physics, Mathematics and Astronomy.

John made five space shuttle flights. He visited Hubble three times on those
missions, and performed eight spacewalks to service and upgrade the observatory.
In all, he logged more than 58 days in space, and 58 hours and 30 minutes of
spacewalk time. He made his first shuttle flight on Endeavour in 1995, studying
the far ultraviolet spectra of faint astronomical objects using the Astro-2
Observatory. He made his second flight on Atlantis in 1997, docking with the
Russian space station Mir. He made his last three missions on Discovery in 1999,
Columbia in 2002 and Atlantis in 2009, upgrading and servicing the Hubble Space
Telescope on all three missions. He was the Payload Commander and lead
spacewalker on the missions in 2002 and 2009. And he served as the commander and
the science officer on the backup crew for Expedition 13 to the International
Space Station in 2004 and 2005.

As Deputy Director at STSI John managed the science program for the Hubble Space
Telescope and the forthcoming James Webb Space Telescope. He has done research
on high energy astrophysics, cosmic ray physics and exoplanets, focusing
especially on future astronomical instrumentation. His doctoral work used a
cosmic ray experiment on the space shuttle Challenger.

The John Wesley Powell Auditorium is adjacent to the Cosmos Club, 2170 Florida
Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008. Entrance is through the club gate, the first
right-hand entrance on Florida Avenue north of the intersection with
Massachusetts Avenue NW. The auditorium entrance is to the left of the gate.
