---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Eliminating the Third Largest Cause of Death"
cover: "/images/health-87369_1280.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "health drug medicine medical care"
  author: "byrev"
  license: "the public domain"
  name_url: "https://pixabay.com/en/health-drug-medicine-medical-care-87369/"
  license_url: "http://fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/public-domain/welcome"
date:   "2017-01-20 20:00"
endDate:   "2017-01-20 22:30"
creation: "2017-01-17"
start_time: "8:00 PM"
end_time: "10:30 PM"
location:
  name: "Philosophical Society of Washington"
  address:
    - "John Wesley Powell Auditorium"
    - "2170 Florida Avenue NW"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
  zip: 20008
tags: [ 'Philosophical Society of Washington', 'Lectures', 'Biology' ]
excerpt: >
  On January 20, the Philosophical Society hosts Martin A. Makary for a lecture
  about the medical care industry. This lecture will use art and presidential
  history to describe America’s heritage of transparency.  It will explore how
  transparency has become an American value and how transparency has positively
  disrupted, and re-defined entire industries for the better.  The modern
  transparency revolution in medicine, from compassionate bedside care to big
  data , and its potential to solve improve outcomes, eliminate mistakes and
  reduce the costs of medical care  will be discussed.  The lecture also will
  discuss what medical practice will look like in the coming years in America,
  in terms of technological innovation and consumer choices.

---

The [Philosophical Society of Washington](http://www.philsoc.org/)
lectures are selected to
appeal to those with a general interest in science and do not require
a specialized knowledge of the subject. They always contain
information that is current, explanations that are understandable
and a few controversial issues to be challenged by a critical
listener. The series is designed as much as possible to include a
wide range of disciplines.

The meetings are open to the public, free, and no reservations are
required. Dress is informal. Meetings are followed by lively
conversation. All must exit the Cosmos Club at 10:30 p.m.
Conversations are continued at another location.

To patients, the healthcare system is a black box.  Doctors and hospitals are
unaccountable. The lack of transparency leaves both bad doctors and systemic
flaws unchecked, producing a medical culture that does little to eliminate
costly preventable errors: routinely leaving surgical sponges inside patients,
amputating the wrong limbs, and administering medications incorrectly because of
sloppy handwriting, to name a few.  Consequently, error rates and the costs of
medical care continue to go up despite rapid scientific progress and others
efforts to curb expenses.  Patients need to know more of what healthcare workers
know, so they can make informed choices.  Accountability in healthcare would
expose dangerous doctors, reward good performance, and force positive change
through the power of the free market.

This lecture will use art and presidential history to describe America’s
heritage of transparency.  It will explore how transparency has become an
American value and how transparency has positively disrupted, and re-defined
entire industries for the better.  The modern transparency revolution in
medicine, from compassionate bedside care to big data , and its potential to
solve improve outcomes, eliminate mistakes and reduce the costs of medical care
will be discussed.  The lecture also will discuss what medical practice will
look like in the coming years in America, in terms of technological innovation
and consumer choices.

Marty Makary is Professor of Health Policy & Management at the Johns Hopkins
University Bloomberg School of Public Health and, concurrently, Surgeon and
Chief of Islet Transplantation Surgery at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, where he
previously held the Mark Ravitch Chair of Gastrointestinal Surgery.

Marty created The Surgery Checklist, popularized in Atul Gawande's book, "The
Checklist Manifesto".  He is the lead author on the original publications
introducing it’s use and measuring its impact on patient safety.  He served on
WHO's Safe Surgery Saves Lives Initiative which developed the WHO Safe Surgery
Checklist, and he chaired WHO's technical workgroup on measuring surgical
quality worldwide. His current research and advocacy work focuses on physician
led efforts to reduce waste in the healthcare system.

Marty is an author on more than two hundred medical and technical publications.
He is the author of "Unaccountable", a New York Times bestseller about the
health care system.  His articles have appeared in wide variety of general
readership publications, including the Wall Street Journal, Time and Newsweek,
and he is a frequent commentator on health issues on broadcast media, especially
on programs on CNN and FOX News.

The John Wesley Powell Auditorium is adjacent to the Cosmos Club, 2170 Florida
Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008. Entrance is through the club gate, the first
right-hand entrance on Florida Avenue north of the intersection with
Massachusetts Avenue NW. The auditorium entrance is to the left of the gate.
