---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Saving the Past"
cover: "/images/Lion_in_the_garden.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "The Lion of Al-lāt (first century AD), which stood at the entrance of the Temple of Al-lāt (destroyed in 2015)"
  author: "Mappo"
  license: "CC BY-SA 4.0"
  name_url: "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palmyra#/media/File:Lion_in_the_garden_of_Palmyra_Archeological_Museum,_2010-04-21.jpg"
  license_url: "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"
date:   "2017-03-10 20:00"
endDate:   "2017-03-10 22:30"
creation: "2017-02-25"
start_time: "8:00 PM"
end_time: "10:30 PM"
location:
  name: "Philosophical Society of Washington"
  address:
    - "John Wesley Powell Auditorium"
    - "2170 Florida Avenue NW"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
  zip: 20008
tags: [ 'Philosophical Society of Washington', 'Lectures']
excerpt: >
  On March 10, the Philosophical Society hosts Deborah Lehr. Culture has
  become a weapon of war and a fundraising tool for violent extremist
  organizations across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA).  Millions of
  archaeological, historic, and religious sites in the MENA region are under
  threat from organized plunder or destruction from armed conflict and violent
  extremist organizations.  This lecture will discuss how the illicit trade in
  antiquities is funding terrorism in the Middle East and beyond and share what
  can be done to halt this dark trade.

---

The [Philosophical Society of Washington](http://www.philsoc.org/)
Lectures are selected to
appeal to those with a general interest in science and do not require
a specialized knowledge of the subject. They always contain
information that is current, explanations that are understandable
and a few controversial issues to be challenged by a critical
listener. The series is designed as much as possible to include a
wide range of disciplines.

The meetings are open to the public, free, and no reservations are
required. Dress is informal. Meetings are followed by lively
conversation. All must exit the Cosmos Club at 10:30 p.m.
Conversations are continued at another location.

Culture has become a weapon of war and a fundraising tool for violent extremist
organizations across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA).  Millions of
archaeological, historic, and religious sites in the MENA region are under
threat from organized plunder or destruction from armed conflict and violent
extremist organizations.  This lecture will discuss how the illicit trade in
antiquities is funding terrorism in the Middle East and beyond and share what
can be done to halt this dark trade.

About the Speaker

Deborah LehrDeborah Lehr is the founder and Chairman of the Antiquities
Coalition. She leads a diverse team of experts in the fight against the looting
and trafficking of cultural heritage by organized crime and terrorists. Their
work focuses in the Middle East and Asia.

Deborah also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Basilinna, a strategic
business consulting firm focused on China and the Middle East. And she is a
Senior Fellow of the Paulson Institute, founded by former Treasury Secretary
Hank Paulson.

Deborah is a member of the International Advisory Council of The National
Geographic Society, the Board of the Archaeological Institute of America,
International Advisory Board of the London School of Economics, the Cox Business
School Advisory Board at Southern Methodist University, and the Advisory Board
of SAIS at Johns Hopkins University.

The John Wesley Powell Auditorium is adjacent to the Cosmos Club, 2170 Florida
Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008. Entrance is through the club gate, the first
right-hand entrance on Florida Avenue north of the intersection with
Massachusetts Avenue NW. The auditorium entrance is to the left of the gate.
