---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Filmfest DC"
cover: "/images/filmfestdc2017.jpg"
date:   "2017-04-20"
endDate:   "2017-04-30"
creation: "2017-04-09"
tags: [ 'Films', 'Festivals' ]
excerpt: >
  Filmfest DC (April 20 - 30) celebrates its 31st anniversary with a new lineup
  of features, documentaries, and shorts representing the best cinema from
  around the globe.

---

[Filmfest DC](http://www.filmfestdc.org/) celebrates its 31st anniversary
with a new lineup of features, documentaries, and shorts representing the
best cinema from around the globe.

"80 films • 45 countries • 11 days • 1 festival"

Some of the films that will be screened are:

### The Magic Mountain

Romanian artist Anca Damian's elegant animated feature, constructed as a
storytelling session between a father and daughter, is a docu-drama traversing a
half century of history. As Anca describes it, "The character Adam Jacek Winkler
is a Polish refugee in Paris, an artist, a mountain climber, and a romantic who
lived a boundless life and envisioned himself a knight of the twentieth century,
leaving France to fight with the mujahideen in Afghanistan against the Soviets."
Described as "A work of overwhelming artistry" by Variety, the images—derived
from Winkler's own paintings, motifs from film history, and from Afghan art and
photography—are offset by Alexander Balanescu's poignant score. "Incorporating a
dazzling blend of various animation techniques, collages, photographs, paintings
by Winkler, and found footage, The Magic Mountain is a hallucinatory essay on
the meaning of heroism."—Brooklyn Academy of Music

### Marie Curie, the Courage of Knowledge

Polish actress Karolina Gruszka stars in this sweeping biography of the
legendary Nobel Prize-winning physicist and chemist, who courted controversy
with both her challenge of France's male-dominated academic establishment and
her unconventional romantic life. Marie Curie, the Courage of Knowledge depicts
the blissful union between Marie Curie (Gruszka) and her husband Pierre (Charles
Berling), the father of her children, her partner in research, and co-winner of
that first Nobel. When Pierre perishes in a tragic accident, it's up to Marie to
continue their work. But, as a woman and a foreigner, she's met with doubly
fierce resistance. And though she perseveres, she's nearly undone by revelations
regarding her relationship with a married colleague. Gruszka's performance,
alternately stoic and vulnerable, never lets us forget that this visionary woman
was also very much a complicated and fascinating human being.—Toronto
International Film Festival

### Obit

Modern obits concern next to nothing about death and "everything to do with
life," says an obit writer. "We look for people who changed the way we live,"
explains William McDonald, obituaries editor at The New York Times, in Vanessa
Gould's bright look at the paper's obituary desk. Gould has crafted a
celebration of the tradition of memorializing our fellow humans. The film
intercuts interviews with the reporters with scenes of them crafting the day's
stories, calling recent widows and family members. Notable obits are brought to
life through historical films and photos. A particularly good example of Gould's
wit and skill is the obit for perhaps the last typewriter repairman. The film
cuts to footage of Liberace sitting down at a typewriter and playing composer
Leroy Anderson's whimsical song "The Typewriter." Obit is also a tribute to good
old-fashioned journalism, currently defying its own premature obituary.—Dave
Nuttycombe

### The Outsider

We're still dealing with many ramifications of 2008's global financial meltdown.
Writer-director Christophe Barratier seeks to put a face to that event and get
inside the mind of a man who could, literally, gamble with millions—and
billions—of other people's money. Outsider pulls us behind the headlines for the
true tale of Jérôme Kerviel (Arthur Dupont), who rose to become one of the top
traders at France's large Société Générale bank. As Kerviel navigates the
split-second demands of the markets, we witness the brutal bonhomie of the male
traders, the growing attitude that winning is everything and rules are for
losers. A clever feint in the stylish opening scenes lead the viewer astray, but
when that truth is revealed, it sets off another cat-and-mouse scramble to avoid
a disaster we know is coming but cannot look away from.—Dave Nuttycombe

### The Preacher

A celebrity imam? Why not, as the first few rat-a-tat minutes of writer-director
Magdy Ahmed Ali's provocative new Egyptian drama The Preacher (adapted from
Ibrahim Eissa's best-selling novel) charts the mercurial rise of charismatic
moderate Sheikh Hatem (Amr Saad), who parlays his slick yet committed message
into a loving family, lavish lifestyle, and popular television program. When his
young son goes into a coma and the government takes an interest in his growing
influence by attempting to manipulate his teachings, the Muslim preacher finds
his faith sorely tested. Glossy and propulsive on a technical level, the film
nevertheless succeeds primarily as a showcase for the exuberant yet finely
calibrated performance of its lead actor and his forceful articulation of the
often byzantine issues separating Sunni from Shia. This is a strategically
commercial take on urgent issues of religion versus power.—Eddie Cockrell

### The Stuff of Dreams

Mediterranean island prison, where a shipwreck strands a traveling theater
troupe and a gang of criminals. The prison's governor must determine who is the
actor and who is the convict. Theater impresario Oreste demands to put on a
show, The Tempest, to prove his actors' talents, but gang leader Don Vincenzo
threatens Oreste against exposing him and his two nephews. When the uncultured
thugs botch their lines, Don slyly notes that Shakespeare "won't be offended if
we change a few things" and works at trimming the story. The comedy of teaching
gangsters to emote theatrically plays against the drama of the governor's
daughter romancing the Don's son. Soon the play, the players, and the story of
the play intermingle hauntingly. As Oreste tells the governor, "Theater puts
wings on one's heart and on one's reason."—Dave Nuttycombe

### Train to Busan

Apocalypse is imminent when passengers on a high-speed train from Seoul to Busan
find out a zombie virus is sweeping across the nation, and in no time flat the
menacing zombie hordes are infiltrating from left and right. As always, human
nature reveals itself in times of desperation; some passengers are willing to
help others flee, but there are also those who are only concerned with
self-preservation. At the center of it all is Seok-woo, a divorced fund manager
riding on the train with his young daughter. Who will survive the mayhem? This
adrenaline-filled zombie thriller is animator Yeon San-ho's live-action debut.
An English-language remake is in the works, but this original will certainly
stand the test of time. Since Train to Busan's premiere at the Cannes Film
Festival's Midnight Screenings section, a zombie craze has gone viral around the
globe.—Museum of Modern Art
