---
layout: post

#event information
title:  "Juno's Exploration of Jupiter"
cover: "/images/Juno_in_front_of_Jupiter.jpg"
attribution:
  name: "Juno in front of Jupiter"
  author: "NASA"
  license: "the public domain"
  name_url: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Juno_in_front_of_Jupiter.jpg"
  license_url: "http://fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/public-domain/welcome"
date:   "2017-01-06 20:00"
endDate:   "2017-01-06 22:30"
creation: "2016-12-15"
start_time: "8:00 PM"
end_time: "10:30 PM"
location:
  name: "Philosophical Society of Washington"
  address:
    - "John Wesley Powell Auditorium"
    - "2170 Florida Avenue NW"
  city: Washington
  state: DC
  zip: 20008
tags: [ 'Philosophical Society of Washington', 'Lectures', 'Astronomy and Aeronautics']
excerpt: >
  On Jan 6, the Philosophical Society hosts Scott Bolton for a lecture about
  NASA's Juno mission.  Juno is a mission of discovery and exploration that will
  conduct an in-depth study of Jupiter, the most massive planet in the solar
  system. Juno is designed to peer for the first time through Jupiter's thick
  clouds deep into its atmosphere. The goal of the mission is to better
  understand the origin and evolution of this gas giant planet, and pave the way
  to a better understanding of our solar system and of the planetary systems
  around other stars.

---

The [Philosophical Society of Washington](http://www.philsoc.org/)
Lectures are selected to
appeal to those with a general interest in science and do not require
a specialized knowledge of the subject. They always contain
information that is current, explanations that are understandable
and a few controversial issues to be challenged by a critical
listener. The series is designed as much as possible to include a
wide range of disciplines.

The meetings are open to the public, free, and no reservations are
required. Dress is informal. Meetings are followed by lively
conversation. All must exit the Cosmos Club at 10:30 p.m.
Conversations are continued at another location.

NASA's Juno is a mission of discovery and exploration that will conduct an
in-depth study of Jupiter, the most massive planet in the solar system. Juno is
designed to peer for the first time through Jupiter's thick clouds deep into its
atmosphere. The goal of the mission is to better understand the origin and
evolution of this gas giant planet, and pave the way to a better understanding
of our solar system and of the planetary systems around other stars.

Juno is focused on four major areas of investigation.  (1)  Jupiter's solid core
and abundance of heavy metals in the atmosphere make it an ideal model to
understand the origin of giant planets. Juno will measure global abundances of
oxygen and nitrogen by mapping the gravitational field and using microwave
observations of water and ammonia.  (2)  Juno will map Jupiter's gravitation and
magnetic fields, revealing the interior structure, the origin of the magnetic
field, the mass of its core, the nature of deep convection, and the abundance of
water.  (3)  Jupiter has the most massive atmosphere of all the planets. By
mapping variations in atmospheric composition, temperature, cloud opacity and
dynamics to depths greater than 100 bars at all latitudes, Juno will determine
the global structure and dynamics of Jupiter’s atmosphere below the cloud tops
for the first time.  (4)  Jupiter’s powerful magnetospheric dynamics create the
brightest aurora in our solar system. Juno will measure the distribution of the
charged particles, their associated fields, and the concurrent UV emissions of
the planet’s polar magnetosphere, greatly improving our understanding of this
remarkable phenomena.

Juno entered orbit around Jupiter on July 4th of this year.  A trim burn in
October adjusted its orbit to bring its closest approach much nearer the planet.
It will reach this point in its orbit in early December and the results from the
close flyby should be back and preliminary analyses ready by the beginning of
the new year.  This lecture will discuss the Juno mission, its instrumentation
and its objectives, the results that have been returned thus far and what they
tell us about the Jovian system, the formation of the solar system and about the
planets and solar systems around other stars.

Scott J. Bolton is the Principle Investigator for NASA's Juno mission.  He also
is Associate Vice President of the Southwest Research Institute's Space Science
and Engineering Division, and he holds a special appointment as Senior Staff
Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Among many previous positions with
NASA, Scott served the Galileo mission as a member of the plasma spectrometer
team and plasma wave instrument team and chaired the Titan science group of the
Cassini-Huygens mission.

Scott's works primarily in the planetary sciences with a focus on the giant
planets and the origin of the solar system.  His research includes modeling of
the Jovian and Saturnian radiation belts, atmospheric dynamics and composition,
and the formation and evolution of the solar system.  He has authored over 250
scientific papers, five book chapters, and consulted and appeared in five major
space science documentaries.

The John Wesley Powell Auditorium is adjacent to the Cosmos Club, 2170 Florida
Avenue NW, Washington DC 20008. Entrance is through the club gate, the first
right-hand entrance on Florida Avenue north of the intersection with
Massachusetts Avenue NW. The auditorium entrance is to the left of the gate.
